docs: Add SBOM page to operator guide (#665)
wasmCloud/wasmCloud.com: docs/deployment/security/sbom.mdx

---
title: 'Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)'
description: 'Generating SBOMs with wasmCloud'
sidebar_position: 5
---
# Securing your wasmCloud supply chain with SBOMs

> [**Software Bills of Materials (SBOMs)**](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/sbom/what-is-an-sbom/) describe the set of software dependencies (sometimes called the "software supply chain") used to build an application. 

Reviewer: I realized after I wrote up my notes that I should've really referred to the official source for this
```suggestion
[**Software Bills of Materials (SBOMs)**](https://www.cisa.gov/sbom) describe the set of software dependencies (sometimes called the "software supply chain") used to build an application. 
```

The U.S. National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST) recommends that organizations utilize SBOMs to mitigate and swiftly remediate [software supply chain attacks](https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/defending_against_software_supply_chain_attacks_508.pdf), and enterprises are increasingly adopting SBOMs as part of their security frameworks. 

WebAssembly modules and components have the intrinsic advantage of bringing nothing else except for the direct dependencies needed for building the application itself, and generating an SBOM for a wasmCloud application is a straightforward process using standard tooling from the cloud native ecosystem.

This document outlines the tooling and steps necessary to build and verify SBOMs for wasmCloud applications.

### Prerequisites

In addition to the wasmCloud tooling (`wash`) and language-specific tooling described in the [wasmCloud Quickstart](/docs/tour/hello-world?lang=tinygo), you will need the following tools:

* [`syft`](https://github.com/anchore/syft?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) for SBOM generation

> * [`grype`](https://github.com/anchore/grype?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) (and optionally [`trivy`](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy?tab=readme-ov-file#get-trivy)) for vulnerability scanning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`grype`](https://github.com/anchore/grype?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) for scanning the SBOM
```
